This list is ordered top-to-bottom by priority.  
Things that are broken and need mending are at the top, 
followed by things that should work before the next release, 
followed by features that should be added/fixed/reworked (grouped by library).  

Everyone is encouraged to add to the list.  Developers can do it directly; 
anyone else can post a patch to Source Forge.  
In this way we can communicate with each
other about the project's priorities and needs.  

To Do List	$Id: TODO,v 1.21 2002-12-11 19:54:14 jklowden Exp $
------------
Broken:
. Fetching of CS_STATUS_RESULT result types in ctlib appears to be broken.

For 0.61 version:

For future versions (in priority order within library):
  All:
. numeric conversions (optimize).
. move error message macro/prototype to tds.h.in; use in dblib.c.
. Remove old char(30) limitations to various sysnames e.g., tables, columns, passwords (checks).  Is this done?  
. Rename TDS 8.0 to TDS 7.1, to be consistent with Microsoft's name
. Add missing constants needed for python and verify working
. Add missing constants needed for Gnome-DB and verify working 
. conversion from ucs2 to utf8, provide for 2+ bytes/character.
. set database during login process (work in progress)
. Autodetect TDS protocol when connecting (and cache somewhere?)
. support for VARIANT type
. tdsping program for testing purposes
. Finish off the TDS dissector for ethereal
. more solid. handle out of memory conditions (started, we must test all allocation and all function that return allocated data and be able to rollback to a safe state)
. limit copy of data (now wire -> tds -> temp -> client)
. All manner of unimplemented functions (see doc/api_status.txt)

  ct-lib
. ct_dynamic and friends needed for DBD::Sybase placeholder support (work in progress)
. cs_calc and cs_cmp, for sybperl
. ct_get/send_data()
. ct_option() calls (CS_OPT_ROWCOUNT, CS_OPT_TEXTSIZE, among others)
. Array binding for ctlib not working
. async function, async calls (dbpoll() and friends)
. bcp support to ctlib

  odbc
. Someone broke early binding in ODBC
. dynamic query (need rewrite SQLPrepare and related) (support binding parameters for all types)
. dynamic query (work in progress, lack unprepare)
. get a solid corpus of unittests for ODBC, and have it become a top tier API.
. improve, best error report (even multiple)
. cursor support

  pool
. get connection pooling working with all protocol versions
. Make pool configuration a non-recompile process

  server
. Server API needs more work, especially for TDS 5.0/7.0

Tests
- "if 0 = 1 select 1" should not fail

Done (removed from above):
. Add bcp support to tds/dblib/ctlib. (started in dblib)
. RPC stuff not implemented (work in progress, libtds ok)
. Add support for TDS 8.0 (login works)
. TDS 7 Unicode to native charset conversion using iconv (partly done)
. autoconf the connection pooling stuff
. DBLIB: output params (tests)

